WinUI TitleBar API Spec (#10056)
microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml: specs/TitleBar/titleBar-dev-spec.md

<!-- The purpose of this document is to describe the design and implementation of a new WinUI control.
     This document contains architectural and implementation details that do not appear in the functional spec. -->

<!-- 
Author: Karen
Audiences: Github community contributors to learn about the control, provide feedback 

This PR will be open for feedback for a month, 10/11-11/11
For more info on the public api review process: https://aka.ms/winappsdk/api-specs-review 
-->

# Description

<!-- Use this section to provide a brief description of the control. -->
The WinUI TitleBar is a title bar control that allows easy additions of WinUI components such as AutoSuggestBox, PersonPicture, and Mica theming. 
It is to be used in lieu of the Shell title bar for when developers want more than the basic shell title bar functionalities. 

Current implementations of a custom titlebar involves the developer to fully create a user component from scratch. A notable painpoint in this process is 

> to manually calculate drag regions for when there are elements in the title bar (ie. AutoSuggestBox - refer to WinUI-Gallery sample). WinUI titleBar is meant 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to manually calculate drag regions for when there are interactive elements in the title bar (ie. AutoSuggestBox - refer to WinUI-Gallery sample). WinUI titleBar is meant 
```

to encapsulate the most common design scenarios and streamline this process. 

# Design considerations

> ## AppWindow TitleBar (IXP) vs. WinUI TitleBar

Reviewer: - What does IXP mean?
- Please don't abbreviate a word like _versus_ when there's no need to.

![Basic TitleBar](images/titlebar-basic.png)

### AppWindow.TitleBar (IXP)
The AppWindow TitleBar is the default title bar, and downlevels to Win32.

AppWindow drawn title bar covers the basic functionalities:
- AppWindow.SetIcon
- AppWindow.Title
- Show Max/Min/Close caption buttons
- Respects theme

<br>

### WinUI TitleBar
Developers will 'opt-in' to the WinUI TitleBar for updated styling and extended functionalities.

**Functionalities:**
- HeaderArea (ie. BackButton, PaneToggleButton)  
![alt text](images/titlebar-header-icongroup.png)

- Icon  
![alt text](images/titlebar-icon.png)

- Title  
![alt text](images/titlebar-title.png)

- Subtitle  
![alt text](images/titlebar-subtitle.png)

- ContentArea (ie. AutoSuggestBox)  
![alt text](images/titlebar-search.png)

- FooterArea (ie. PersonPicture)
![alt text](images/titlebar-personpicture.png)

- Transparency for Mica
- Custom Height - 32px as default / 48px if content != null  
![TitleBar Size Variants](images/titlebar-sizevariant.png)

> ## Considerations

Reviewer 2: The WinUI title bar should meet [Windows app design guidelines](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/design/basics/titlebar-design#icon) (see https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/issues/9907). For example:

> A single-click/tap on the icon should show system window menu.
> A double-click/tap should close the window.

Author: Great callout. I will make sure it is included in the Considerations section.

- Which elements collapses on re-size
     - Store collapses Title and Subtitle in minimal mode

<br><br>

![WinUI-Gallery TitleBar](images/1p-winuigallery-titlebar.png)
![WinUI-Gallery TitleBar Minimal Mode](images/1p-winuigallery-titlebar-minimal.png)
- Handling of BackButton and PaneToggleButton for NavView
     - Collapsing and moving pane toggle button to titlebar in Minimal Mode

<br><br>

![Teams TitleBar](images/1p-teams-titlebar.png)
- Ability to add non standard elements such as "<", ">" in content, and other buttons in footer

<br><br>

![Visual Studio Code TitleBar](images/1p-vscode-titlebar.png)
- Ability to toggle Header content before or after TitleBar icon? 
- _Currently not implemented_

# Implementation Details

## Hole-punching through Non-Client Area
Once TitleBar control is set as the Window titlebar in developer codebehind, the entire region's input is marked as non-client
and becomes non-interactable. We need to punch out a "hole" for each interactable region in TitleBar.
Eg. Header, body, and footer content areas.

`m_interactableElementsList`
- A list of interactable elements is tracked in the lifetime of the TitleBar.

> - The list is updated everytime the specified elements' visibility changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The list is updated every time the specified elements' visibility changes.
```

>      - eg. `BackButton`, `PaleToggleButton`, `Header`, `Content`, `Footer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - eg. `BackButton`, `PaneToggleButton`, `Header`, `Content`, `Footer`.
```

`UpdateDragRegion()`

> - Called everytime `SizeChanged` and `LayoutUpdated` events are fired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Called every time `SizeChanged` and `LayoutUpdated` events are fired.
```

- Checks if `m_interactableElementsList` has children, and if so gets the rects of each element.
- Accesses the `InputNonClientPointerSource` at the IXP layer and set rects as pass through regions.

_Note: a custom "LayoutUpdated" event needs to be written._
_The Default LayoutUpdated event fires for every little (non-relevant) events._

# Functional spec link

> [Functional Spec](images/titleBar-functional-spec.md)

Reviewer 3: Dead link

Author: Fixed.

# Appendix

## Header, Content, Footer API Naming
Alternate naming considerations for `Header`, `Content`, `Footer`:
- Header and Footer aligns with TabView.TabStripHeader and TabView.TabStripFooter
- Start and End (e.g. [Windows.UI.Xaml.TextAlignment](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.xaml?view=winrt-26100))
- Before and After (e.g. CSS, [Fluent Web UI](https://react.fluentui.dev/?path=/docs/components-input--docs#content-before-after))

> - Leading and Trailing (e.g. [Apple SwiftUI Toolbar](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/toolbaritemplacement/topbarleading))

Reviewer 4: Does this mean this is up for discussion still in this design as a todo? Or is this more of a comparison to explain what is meant by these concepts?

Author: These are notes for posterity. I am submitting this spec for review and wanted to call out the comparisons.
